
The party starts in a kingdom that has very recently defeated the recently returned "lich king", defeated, but not destroyed, merely banished. He had on himself a black orb, within which he has hid. The mechanisms are unknown but in the past thought this he returned 4 years after his defeat, and is now expected he would be doing the same again. 6 years ago he was defeated originally and people believed it was over, the orb was considered a trophy and put on display. thought it he came back 7 years ago, so this time the kingdom sought to destroy the orb instead. but to no avail, it proved to be indestructible but any means they possessed. The kingdom has announced that it seeks people now not for its destruction, but rather, to throw it of the face of the world. This is where the party comes in, tasked with the burden of carrying this orb to the end of the world, to throw it of the edge, and thus finally defeat the lich king.

(DM note: Party doesn't know this but the lich can reform himself when the strand of Undeath(necromancy) falls in a high magic season), This happens every few years.

Quest premiss: party has a time limit but doesn't know when the deadline is, but can figure it out by scrying the orb, communicating with the lich, or through investigating in the way.  

Hints about the deadline:
Historical journals describing the date of the last awakening, If they track the calendar back, it can be inferred that it happened on the strand of Undeath during high season.

The Lich himself bargains through dream‑sending, weakly during mid season and strongly during high seasons.


Justification for why the party is tasked with this quest instead of the kings best, The King does not know exactly if the orb is the source of the liches resurrection, but he know Tenra transported this orb into their capital the first time the lich was banished.
And currently there are hordes upon hordes roaming around on the southern Tuylus border with the entire army bogged down keeping them at bay. the king simply has no other options but entrust a party of adventurers to at least take the orb far away.
The leader of the party The King's Arm, who passed during the second banishment of the lich king. had in earlier days talked about his travels to the edge of the world where he supposedly looked over the edge. The king believes this is best shot at being rid the lich for good.



List of Encounter ideas during the campaign:

A friendly witch:
Rita the witch, who's house is surrounded by gigantic feathers is introduced either randomly or when the party is looking for herbs or options in a village. If the party tells the witch about their quest, the witch will offer to take them part of the way. If they accept the house will lift itself of the ground and it turns out it is the upper part of a giant chicken. She will carry them across the land for up to a month, This would be 5 times as fast as walking.
(becomes hostile if attacked)

A shady ships captain
Captain Arvin, He offers to allow them to sail with his crew to a city farther out, if they can pay. he will not accept anything but payment upfront, so if the party has failed to make enough at this point this option is unavailable. If they show him the orb, he will accept and mask it as wanting to help, but will deviate sail into a lagune where a kraken is known to rest, he will abandon ship during the night and fix its coarse attempting to kill the party through the kraken to later recover the orb through the remains. 
(The ship is a small vessel with a single deck bellow) (Will plea for mercy if attacked)


Horizon Order:
Paladins who believe nothing should cross the rim. They are in the midst of constructing a wall with the intent to wall of all paths to the rim. They are in general neutral good, as they see their mission more important than the well being of any one person. 

Their reasoning is to protect their world, or country from evil that spawns bellow. There is some merit to this as there are dark things crawling up from the rim.
If the orb is shown, they will demand to keep the orb in a buried vault.
The parties options are to contest through a philosophical debate or duel in an arena. Stealth in, or take a different route.
(Becomes hostile if the party is discovered to have crossed in to the wastes, or if attacked)


The Laminar Rift Crossing:
 – Two cliffs only 40 m apart but over 100mk wide, with an air‑stream so fast it scours flesh. Shave weeks off by crossing here.	During Low magic the air current slows; during High it can blast for kilometres. Party can seek to go around, or wait for low seasons, Or alternatively explore for alternative routes.
There exists an old dwarven tunnel that crosses the rift deep within, but the entrance is hidden and there is a ruined dwarven dungeon to get to it.


Note on a sign on the road poinint down a small side road reading "Seeking adventures to investigate grave robbery"
This leads to a small village with a decent sized estate in it where they can find a lord who is in shok as his son who died fighting the lich King the first time he arrived was purried.
There are also 8 other village graves that has been dug up. All belonging and the entire corpse is gone.
If the players search the graves and a bit into the forest they will find faint charage tracks, these lead to a small overgrown road which firther lead to an abandoned looking castle.
In here they will find the dead modies fully animated, including the lord's son in the fullplate he was burried in.
These when defeated will drop for 1 turn then they start mioving again.
If the players search the castle they will find a study where an inc bottle is very recently spilled and is dripping from the table to the floor.
The book besides it describe a nail nailed into the chest of a corpse tha can animate it, pulling this out stops the animation.
The necromancer is hiding in a small hidden space in the wall of the study. 
If discovered he opens with "Please! I mean no harm!"

He wishes to build his own army to and hire them out for a fee. He was a devote follower of the One Below before the Lich King appeared 
and was shuned out of his community due to his association with studies of the dead. He now wishes to show the world that necromancy isnt inherently evil and can be used for good aswell.
If he is let go and shown the orb or clued in on what is happening he will offer help desiphering dream words from the lich. (or give some other clue that could help them discover the deadline date.)
"I only wanted to show them my work has value!"



Potential adversaries:
Fanatics worship the Lich as proof of eternal life. They tail the PCs, trying to help the orb survive.	Cat‑and‑mouse intrigue; could steal the orb if vigilance lapses.




DM notes:
Campaign Start Date: 27th of {month} Mid Fall, No Strand of the year 310.

The original date of the Lich kings appearance was the 8th of {month} High Spring, Strand of Undeath The year of 303.
The original banishing date was 12th of {month}, Mid Spring, Strand of Blades The year of 306.
The resurrection date was the 17th of {month} High Summer, Strand of Undeath The year of 310. 
The second banishing date was the 23rd of {month} Mid Fall, Strand Of Radiance The year of 310.
The quest deadline is the 19th {month}, High Spring, Strand of Undeath The year of 312.



Fail‑Forward Philosophy: A lost shortcut doesn’t stop the story—it pushes them onto wilder routes, and ups the time pressure.

Repeat the date at every rest, "You've rested and it is now the 10th of October Low fall, No Strand."

Most aberrations are creatures leaking from the underside.

Mentions of the Black sun refer to the view of the black hole from the underside.